README.md, before:

![FileBarj](.github/assets/FileBarJ-logo-512.png)

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/nagyesta/file-barj?color=informational)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nagyesta/file-barj/main/LICENSE)
[![Java version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java%20version-17-yellow?logo=java)](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java%20version-17-yellow?logo=java)
[![latest-release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/nagyesta/file-barj?color=blue&logo=git&label=releases&sort=semver)](https://github.com/nagyesta/file-barj/releases)
[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.github.nagyesta.file-barj/file-barj-app?logo=apache-maven)](https://search.maven.org/search?q=com.github.nagyesta.file-barj)
[![JavaCI](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nagyesta/file-barj/gradle.yml?logo=github&branch=main)](https://github.com/nagyesta/file-barj/actions/workflows/gradle.yml)

[![code-climate-maintainability](https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/maintainability/nagyesta/file-barj?logo=code%20climate)](https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/maintainability/nagyesta/file-barj?logo=code%20climate)
[![code-climate-tech-debt](https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/tech-debt/nagyesta/file-barj?logo=code%20climate)](https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/tech-debt/nagyesta/file-barj?logo=code%20climate)
[![last_commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/nagyesta/file-barj?logo=git)](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/nagyesta/file-barj?logo=git)
[![badge-abort-mission-armed-green](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nagyesta/abort-mission/wiki_assets/.github/assets/badge-abort-mission-armed-green.svg)](https://github.com/nagyesta/abort-mission)

File BaRJ (File Backup and Restore Java) is a multi-platform backup utility for files. It is intended to be a highly configurable tool
that can create secure backups of preconfigured files and folders and can be easily scheduled.

## Recommended use

### Warning!

> File BaRJ is a free tool that is provided "as is", **without warranty of any kind**. It might be the perfect tool you need, or leave you
> with gigabytes of encrypted hot mess instead of your precious data. By using it, you accept the risk of data loss (among others).

## Features

File BaRJ comes with the following features

- Full backups of folders or files
- Incremental backups of folders or files
- Change detection based on:
  - file size, 
  - last modification time, 
  - configurable hash algorithms
- Optional encryption using
  - an RSA key pair
  - a password
  - AES-256 per file and/or the backup archive
- Compression of the backup archive
- Backup archive splitting to configurable chunks
- Backup archive integrity checks
- Restore/unpack previous backup

## Quick start guide

### Startup parameters

TBD

# Limitations

TBD

Commit message:

Implement MVP - Adds more test cases - Refactors file parsing and content hashing logic - Starts enforcing the use of var where possible - Adds hash verification metadata - Adds new module for stream implementations of the BaRJ cargo archive - Implements the single threaded and parallel OutputStreams for the BaRJ cargo archive - Implements merging input stream - Implements an InputStream source for the BaRJ cargo archive - Adds archive verification - Adds a convenient way to access archived content and metadata - Reactivates gradle.yml workflow - Adds verification steps to mitigate archive path traversal risks - Provides restore capabilities - Implements manifest merging logic for restore - Implements logic to identify which files need to be restored (comparing current and desired states) - Implements dry-run restore pipeline - Configures release trigger workflow - Implements job executable calling the backup and restore controllers with the provided - Adds tests
Resolves #12
{minor}

Signed-off-by: Esta Nagy <nagyesta@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

![FileBarj](.github/assets/FileBarJ-logo-512.png)

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/nagyesta/file-barj?color=informational)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nagyesta/file-barj/main/LICENSE)
[![Java version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java%20version-17-yellow?logo=java)](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java%20version-17-yellow?logo=java)
[![latest-release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/nagyesta/file-barj?color=blue&logo=git&label=releases&sort=semver)](https://github.com/nagyesta/file-barj/releases)
[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.github.nagyesta.file-barj/file-barj-app?logo=apache-maven)](https://search.maven.org/search?q=com.github.nagyesta.file-barj)
[![JavaCI](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nagyesta/file-barj/gradle.yml?logo=github&branch=main)](https://github.com/nagyesta/file-barj/actions/workflows/gradle.yml)

[![code-climate-maintainability](https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/maintainability/nagyesta/file-barj?logo=code%20climate)](https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/maintainability/nagyesta/file-barj?logo=code%20climate)
[![code-climate-tech-debt](https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/tech-debt/nagyesta/file-barj?logo=code%20climate)](https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/tech-debt/nagyesta/file-barj?logo=code%20climate)
[![last_commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/nagyesta/file-barj?logo=git)](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/nagyesta/file-barj?logo=git)
[![badge-abort-mission-armed-green](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nagyesta/abort-mission/wiki_assets/.github/assets/badge-abort-mission-armed-green.svg)](https://github.com/nagyesta/abort-mission)

File BaRJ (File Backup and Restore Java) is a multi-platform backup utility for files. It is intended to be a highly configurable tool
that can create secure backups of preconfigured files and folders and can be easily scheduled.

> [!WARNING]
> File BaRJ is a free tool that is provided "as is", **without warranty of any kind**. It might be the perfect tool you need, or leave you
with gigabytes of encrypted hot mess instead of your precious data. By using it, you accept the risk of data loss (among others).

## Features

### Already supported

File BaRJ comes with the following features

- Full backups of folders or files
- Optional encryption using
  - an RSA key pair
  - a password
  - AES-256 keys for each file and the archive contents
- Compression of the backup archive
- Backup archive splitting to configurable chunks
- Backup archive integrity checks
- Restore/unpack previous backup

### Planned features

- Incremental backups of folders or files
- Change detection based on:
    - file size,
    - last modification time,
    - configurable hash algorithms
- Merge previous backup increments
- UI for convenient configuration

## Modules

- [File BaRJ Stream IO](file-barj-stream-io/README.md)
- [File BaRJ Core](file-barj-core/README.md)
- [File BaRJ Job](file-barj-job/README.md)

# Limitations

- The file permissions are only captured from the point of view of the current user on Windows or other non-POSIX compliant systems.
