file-barj-job/README.md, before:

![FileBarj](../.github/assets/FileBarJ-logo-512.png)

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/nagyesta/file-barj?color=informational)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nagyesta/file-barj/main/LICENSE)
[![Java version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java%20version-17-yellow?logo=java)](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java%20version-17-yellow?logo=java)
[![latest-release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/nagyesta/file-barj?color=blue&logo=git&label=releases&sort=semver)](https://github.com/nagyesta/file-barj/releases)
[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.github.nagyesta.file-barj/file-barj-job?logo=apache-maven&color=blue)](https://search.maven.org/search?q=com.github.nagyesta.file-barj)
[![JavaCI](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nagyesta/file-barj/gradle.yml?logo=github&branch=main)](https://github.com/nagyesta/file-barj/actions/workflows/gradle.yml)
[![codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/nagyesta/file-barj?label=Coverage&flag=job&token=62UC72ZRF0)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/nagyesta/file-barj?flags%5B0%5D=job)

File BaRJ (File Backup and Restore Java) is a multi-platform backup utility for files. It is intended to be a highly configurable tool
that can create secure backups of preconfigured files and folders and can be easily scheduled.

## File BaRJ Job

This module provides a CLI entry point for defining and executing File BaRJ backup tasks using the high level API provided by the [File BaRJ Core](../file-barj-core/README.md) package.

> [!WARNING]
> File BaRJ is a free tool that is provided "as is", **without warranty of any kind**. It might be the perfect tool you need, or leave you
> with gigabytes of encrypted hot mess instead of your precious data. By using it, you accept the risk of data loss (among others).

## Quick start guide

### Generating a key pair

Execute the following command (assuming that your executable is named accordingly).

```commandline
java -jar build/libs/file-barj-job.jar \
     --gen-keys \
     --key-store keys.p12 \
     --key-alias alias
```

Follow the I/O prompts on the console to provide the necessary passwords.
Save the printed public key as you will need it later when configuring your backup job.

### Executing a backup

Configure your backup job using the 
[Backup job configuration tips](https://github.com/nagyesta/file-barj/wiki/Backup-job-configuration-tips) page.

Execute the following command (assuming that your executable is named accordingly).

```commandline
java -jar build/libs/file-barj-job.jar \
     --backup \
     --config config.json \
     --threads 2
```

### Restoring a backup to a directory

Execute the following command (assuming that your executable is named accordingly).

```commandline
java -jar build/libs/file-barj-job.jar \
     --restore \
     --backup-source /backup/directory/path \
     --prefix backup-job-file-prefix \
     --target-mapping /original/path=/restore/path \
     --dry-run true \
     --delete-missing true \
     --key-store keys.p12 \
     --key-alias alias \
     --at-epoch-seconds 123456 \
     --include-path /original/path/filter \
     --permission-comparison STRICT \
     --threads 2
```

### Inspecting the available increments of a backup

Execute the following command (assuming that your executable is named accordingly).

```commandline
java -jar build/libs/file-barj-job.jar \
     --inspect-increments \
     --backup-source /backup/directory/path \
     --prefix backup-job-file-prefix \
     --key-store keys.p12 \
     --key-alias alias
```

### Inspecting the content of a backup increment

Execute the following command (assuming that your executable is named accordingly).

```commandline
java -jar build/libs/file-barj-job.jar \
     --inspect-content \
     --backup-source /backup/directory/path \
     --prefix backup-job-file-prefix \
     --key-store keys.p12 \
     --key-alias alias \
     --output-file /path/to/output.tsv \
     --at-epoch-seconds 123456
```

## Further reading

Please read more about configuring the BaRJ backup jobs [here](https://github.com/nagyesta/file-barj/wiki/Backup-job-configuration-tips).

Commit message:

Add option to merge incremental backups (#158)
- Implements merge functionality
- Merge can delete obsolete backup files
- Enforces hash verification during merge (including during multi-threaded backups)
- Adds new --merge command to the CLI job
- Updates tests
- Updates documentation

Resolves #154
{minor}

Signed-off-by: Esta Nagy <nagyesta@gmail.com>

file-barj-job/README.md, after:

![FileBarj](../.github/assets/FileBarJ-logo-512.png)

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/nagyesta/file-barj?color=informational)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nagyesta/file-barj/main/LICENSE)
[![Java version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java%20version-17-yellow?logo=java)](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java%20version-17-yellow?logo=java)
[![latest-release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/nagyesta/file-barj?color=blue&logo=git&label=releases&sort=semver)](https://github.com/nagyesta/file-barj/releases)
[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.github.nagyesta.file-barj/file-barj-job?logo=apache-maven&color=blue)](https://search.maven.org/search?q=com.github.nagyesta.file-barj)
[![JavaCI](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nagyesta/file-barj/gradle.yml?logo=github&branch=main)](https://github.com/nagyesta/file-barj/actions/workflows/gradle.yml)
[![codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/nagyesta/file-barj?label=Coverage&flag=job&token=62UC72ZRF0)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/nagyesta/file-barj?flags%5B0%5D=job)

File BaRJ (File Backup and Restore Java) is a multi-platform backup utility for files. It is intended to be a highly configurable tool
that can create secure backups of preconfigured files and folders and can be easily scheduled.

## File BaRJ Job

This module provides a CLI entry point for defining and executing File BaRJ backup tasks using the high level API provided by the [File BaRJ Core](../file-barj-core/README.md) package.

> [!WARNING]
> File BaRJ is a free tool that is provided "as is", **without warranty of any kind**. It might be the perfect tool you need, or leave you
> with gigabytes of encrypted hot mess instead of your precious data. By using it, you accept the risk of data loss (among others).

## Quick start guide

### Generating a key pair

Execute the following command (assuming that your executable is named accordingly).

```commandline
java -jar build/libs/file-barj-job.jar \
     --gen-keys \
     --key-store keys.p12 \
     --key-alias alias
```

Follow the I/O prompts on the console to provide the necessary passwords.
Save the printed public key as you will need it later when configuring your backup job.

### Executing a backup

Configure your backup job using the 
[Backup job configuration tips](https://github.com/nagyesta/file-barj/wiki/Backup-job-configuration-tips) page.

Execute the following command (assuming that your executable is named accordingly).

```commandline
java -jar build/libs/file-barj-job.jar \
     --backup \
     --config config.json \
     --threads 2
```

### Merging backup increments

Execute the following command (assuming that your executable is named accordingly).

```commandline
java -jar build/libs/file-barj-job.jar \
     --merge \
     --backup-source /backup/directory/path \
     --prefix backup-job-file-prefix \
     --delete-obsolete false \
     --key-store keys.p12 \
     --key-alias alias \
     --from-epoch-seconds 123456 \
     --to-epoch-seconds 234567
```

The above command will merge all backup files starting with the one created at 123456 (epoch seconds),
including the last file created at 234567 (epoch seconds) and also including every other increment
between them.

> [!WARNING]
> If there is a full backup between the two, every incremental backup in the range which was created before the last full backup of the range will be ignored during the merge and deleted if the configuration allows deletion of obsolete files.

### Restoring a backup to a directory

Execute the following command (assuming that your executable is named accordingly).

```commandline
java -jar build/libs/file-barj-job.jar \
     --restore \
     --backup-source /backup/directory/path \
     --prefix backup-job-file-prefix \
     --target-mapping /original/path=/restore/path \
     --dry-run true \
     --delete-missing true \
     --key-store keys.p12 \
     --key-alias alias \
     --at-epoch-seconds 123456 \
     --include-path /original/path/filter \
     --permission-comparison STRICT \
     --threads 2
```

### Inspecting the available increments of a backup

Execute the following command (assuming that your executable is named accordingly).

```commandline
java -jar build/libs/file-barj-job.jar \
     --inspect-increments \
     --backup-source /backup/directory/path \
     --prefix backup-job-file-prefix \
     --key-store keys.p12 \
     --key-alias alias
```

### Inspecting the content of a backup increment

Execute the following command (assuming that your executable is named accordingly).

```commandline
java -jar build/libs/file-barj-job.jar \
     --inspect-content \
     --backup-source /backup/directory/path \
     --prefix backup-job-file-prefix \
     --key-store keys.p12 \
     --key-alias alias \
     --output-file /path/to/output.tsv \
     --at-epoch-seconds 123456
```

## Further reading

Please read more about configuring the BaRJ backup jobs [here](https://github.com/nagyesta/file-barj/wiki/Backup-job-configuration-tips).
